== README

This is a simple blog application built with Ruby on Rails. Below I have provided setting up a development environment in Linux as this is the environment I chose to create this project within.

=== HOW TO SETUP DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT (Linux)

===== Install Dependencies

Install build essentials by opening up a terminal window and typing the following command:

       sudo apt-get install build-essential

Next, install curl. In the terminal window type:

      sudo apt-get install curl

Then, install Git. In the terminal window type:

        sudo apt-get install git-core

===== Installing RVM

RVM stands for Ruby Version Manager and allows you to install multiple versions of Ruby and switch between them easily. Even if you are only going to use one version, it's probably the simplest way to install Ruby.

To install RMV, in your terminal window run the command:

        curl -L https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable --ruby

In the terminal window, type the following in order to make RVM known in your bash sessions:

        echo '[[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && . "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"' >> ~/.bashrc

Finally, restart your bash session by closing and then reopening your terminal window.

Using RVM

You can get a list of Ruby versions by running the following command in your terminal window:

        rvm list known

The version of Ruby we will use is 2.1.0 and you can install it by using the following command in your terminal window:

        rvm install ruby-2.1.0

Set this version as the default using the following command in your terminal window:

        rvm use 2.1.0

You can then make sure Ruby is installed by running the following command in your terminal window:

        ruby -v

===== Installing Rails

The latest version of Rails will be installed by issuing the following command.  From your terminal window type:

        gem install rails

You can verify that it was installed correctly by running the following command in your terminal window:

        rails -v

(This will check the current installed version of Rails, which should be 4.0 or later)

